Clean up "7 Common Errors to Check when Debugging Airflow DAGs" (#36)
astronomer/astro-blog: posts/7-common-errors-to-check-when-debugging-airflow-dag.md

---
title: 7 Common Errors to Check when Debugging Airflow DAGs
slug: 7-common-errors-to-check-when-debugging-airflow-dag
description: Tasks not running? DAG stuck? Logs nowhere to be found? We’ve been there. Here’s a list of common snags and some corresponding fixes to consider when you’re debugging your Airflow Deployment.
heroImagePath: ../assets/1573246544-screen-shot-2019-11-08-at-3-55-29-pm.jpg
authors:
  - Paola Peraza Calderon
  - Ben Gregory
date: 2019-04-03T00:00:00.000Z
---

Apache Airflow is the industry standard for workflow orchestration, handling use cases that range from machine learning model training to traditional ETL at scale. It's an incredibly flexible tool that powers mission critical projects for startups and Fortune 50 teams alike.

Airflow's breadth and extensibility, however, can make it challenging to adopt - especially for those looking for guidance beyond day one operations. In an effort to provide best practices and expand on existing resources, our team at Astronomer has collected some of the most common issues we see Airflow users face.

> Whether you're new to Airfow or an experienced user, check out this list of common errors and some corresponding fixes to consider.

Reviewer: Airfow -> Airflow

Author: good catch - fixed

> > **Note:** [Airflow 2.0](https://www.astronomer.io/blog/introducing-airflow-2-0) was released in December of 2020 and addresses a significant number of pain points commmonly reported by users running previous versions. We strongly encourage all teams to upgrade to Airflow 2.0+ as soon as they're able.

Reviewer: commmonly -> commonly

Author: good catch - fixed

Depending on your use case, we'd suggest considering the following:

- Create a DAG that runs at a more frequent interval.
- Trigger a [Lambda function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-introduction-function.html).

> **Note:** Airflow v1.10.2's new sensor [`mode=reschedule`](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/1.10.2/airflow/sensors/base_sensor_operator.py#L46-L56) feature addresses this issue. If you have more sensors than worker slots, the sensor will now get thrown into a new `up_for_reschedule` state, thus unblocking a worker slot.
>
> If you're running Airflow 2.0+, consider enabling [Smart Sensors](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.0.1/smart-sensor.html?highlight=smart%20sensors). They significantly improve sensor functionality and are built to optimize resources and reduce cost.

## 5. Tasks are executing slowly.

If your tasks are stuck in a bottleneck, we'd recommend taking a closer look at:

- Environment Variables and concurrency configurations
- Worker and Scheduler resources

> ### Environment Variables and concurrency configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Environment variables and concurrency configurations.
```

Author: done!

---
title: 7 Common Errors to Check when Debugging Airflow DAGs
slug: 7-common-errors-to-check-when-debugging-airflow-dag
description: Tasks not running? DAG stuck? Logs nowhere to be found? We’ve been there. Here’s a list of common snags and some corresponding fixes to consider when you’re debugging your Airflow Deployment.
heroImagePath: ../assets/1573246544-screen-shot-2019-11-08-at-3-55-29-pm.jpg
authors:
  - Paola Peraza Calderon
  - Ben Gregory
date: 2019-04-03T00:00:00.000Z
---

> Apache Airflow has become the industry standard for workflow orchestration, handling use cases that range from machine learning model training to traditional ETL at scale. It's an incredibly flexible tool that powers mission critical projects for startups and Fortune 50 teams alike.

Author: Done!

> With that said, the very tool that many regard as a powerful "blank canvas" can quickly become a double edged sword if you're just getting started. And, unfortunately, there isn't a particularly vast wealth of resources and best practices that offer assistance on day two operations and beyond.

Author: Ended up tweaking this paragraph entirely! Should address comments here.

> In an effort to lower that gap, we've collected some of the most common issues we see Airflow users face. Whether you're new to the community or an experienced user, check out this list of common snags and some corresponding fixes to consider.

Author: Same as above! Should be addressed.

---

## 1. Your DAG isn't running at the time you expect it to.

You wrote a new DAG that needs to run every hour and you're ready to turn it on. You set an hourly interval beginning today at 2pm, setting a reminder to check back in a couple of hours. You hop on at 3:30pm to find that while your DAG did in fact run, your logs indicate that there is only one recorded execution date for 2pm. Huh - what happened to the 3pm run?

> Before you jump into fixer-upper mode (you wouldn't be the first), rest assured that this is expected behavior. The functionality of the Airflow Scheduler can be counterintuitive, but you'll get the hang of it.

Author: committed

To properly trigger your DAG to run, make sure to insert a fixed time in the past and set [catchup=False](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/v1-9-stable/airflow/models.py#L2865) if you don't want to perform a backfill.

> **Note:** You can manually trigger a DAG run via Airflow's UI directly on your dashboard (it looks like a "Play" button). A manual trigger executes immediately and will _not_ interrupt regular scheduling, though it will be limited by any concurrency configurations you have at the DAG, deployment level or task level. When you look at corresponding logs, the `run_id` will show `manual__` instead of `scheduled__`.

## 3. You're seeing a 503 Error on your Deployment.

If you hop into your Airflow Deployment only to realize that your instance is entirely inaccessible via your web browser, it very likely has something to do with your Webserver. 

> If you've already refreshed the page once or twice and continue to see a 503 error, read below for some Webserver related guidelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've already refreshed the page once or twice and continue to see a 503 error, read below for some Webserver-related guidelines.
```

### Your Webserver might be crashing.

> A 503 error is generally indicative of an issue with your Deployment's Webserver, the core Airflow component responsible for rendering task state and task execution logs in the Airflow UI. If it's underpowered or otherwise experiencing an issue for any reason, you can generally expect it to affect UI loading time or web browser accessibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A 503 error might indicate an issue with your Deployment's Webserver, which is the core Airflow component responsible for rendering task state and task execution logs in the Airflow UI. If it's underpowered or otherwise experiencing an issue, you can expect it to affect UI loading time or web browser accessibility.
```

> In our experience, a 503 specifically often indicates that your Webserver is crashing (at Astronomer, you might hear this referenced as a `CrashLoopBackOff` state). If you push up a deploy and your Webserver for any reason takes longer than a few seconds to start, it might hit a timeout period (10 secs by default) that "crashes" it before it has time to spin up. That triggers a retry, which crashes again, and so on and so forth.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our experience, a 503 often indicates that your Webserver is crashing (at Astronomer, you might hear this referenced as a `CrashLoopBackOff` state). If you push up a deploy and your Webserver for any reason takes longer than a few seconds to start, it might hit a timeout period (10 secs by default) that "crashes" it before it has time to spin up. That triggers a retry, which crashes again, and so on and so forth.
```

> If your Deployment finds itself in this state, it might be that your Webserver is hitting a memory limit when loading your DAGs, even while your Workers and Scheduler continue to execute tasks as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your Deployment is in this state, your Webserver might be hitting a memory limit when loading your DAGs even as while your Workers and Scheduler continue to work as expected.
```

### Increase Webserver resources.

Airflow 1.10 is a bit greedier than Airflow 1.9 with regards to CPU (memory usage), so we've seen a recent uptick in users reporting 503s. Often, a quick bump in resources allocated to your Webserver does the trick.

If you're using Astronomer, we generally recommend keeping the Webserver at a minimum of 5 AU ([Astronomer Units](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/pricing/)). Even if you're not running anything particularly heavy, keeping your Webserver below 5 will more likely than not return some funky behavior all around.

### Increase the Webserver Timeout period.

> If upping the Webserver resources doesn't seem to be having an effect (don't go crazy with it either), you might want to try increasing `web_server_master_timeout` or `web_server_worker_timeout`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If upping the Webserver resources doesn't seem to have an effect, you might want to try increasing `web_server_master_timeout` or `web_server_worker_timeout`.
```

Raising those values will tell your Airflow Webserver to wait a bit longer to load before it hits you with a 503 (a timeout). You might still experience slow loading times if your Deployment is in fact underpowered, but you'll likely avoid hitting a 503.

### Avoid making requests outside of an operator.

> If you're making API calls, JSON requests or database requests _outside_ of an operator at a high frequency, your Webserver is much more likely to timeout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're making API calls, JSON requests, or database requests outside of an operator at a high frequency, your Webserver is much more likely to timeout.
```

> When Airflow interprets a file to look for any valid DAGs, it first runs all code at the top level (i.e. outside of operators) immediately. Even if the operator itself only gets executed at execution time, everything called *outside* of an operator is called every heartbeat, which can be quite taxing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Airflow interprets a file to look for any valid DAGs, it first runs all code at the top level (i.e. outside of operators). Even if the operator itself only gets executed at execution time, everything called outside of an operator is called every heartbeat, which can be quite taxing.
```

We'd recommend taking the logic you have currently running outside of an operator and moving it inside of a Python Operator if possible.

## 4. Sensor tasks are failing intermittently.

This leads us to a general best practice we've come to adopt.

### Be careful when using Sensors.

> If you're using Airflow 1.10.1 or a prior version, [Airflow sensors]() run continuously and occupy a task slot in perpetuity until they find what they're looking for, so they have a tendency to cause concurrency issues. Unless you truly never have more than a few tasks running concurrently, we generally recommend avoiding them unless you know it won't take too long for them to exit. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using Airflow 1.10.1 or a prior version, [Airflow sensors](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_api/airflow/sensors/index.html) run continuously and occupy a task slot in perpetuity until they find what they're looking for, so they have a tendency to cause concurrency issues. Unless you never have more than a few tasks running concurrently, we recommend avoiding them unless you know it won't take too long for them to exit. 
```
Empty link?

For example, if a worker can only run X number of tasks simultaneously and you have three sensors running, then you'll only be able to run X-3 tasks at any given point. Keep in mind that if you're running a sensor at all times, that limits how and when a scheduler restart can occur (or else it will fail the sensor).

Depending on your use case, we'd suggest considering the following:

> **a. Create a DAG that runs at a more frequent interval.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a DAG that runs at a more frequent interval. 
```

> Possibly what the poke is set at - and skips downstream tasks if no file is found.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this means, but can we work it in to the first bullet point?

> **b. Trigger a [Lambda function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-introduction-function.html).**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Trigger a [Lambda function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-introduction-function.html).
```

> **Note:** Airflow v1.10.2's new sensor [`mode=reschedule`](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/1.10.2/airflow/sensors/base_sensor_operator.py#L46-L56) feature addresses this issue. If you have more sensors than worker slots, the sensor will now get thrown into a new `up_for_reschedule` state, thus unblocking a worker slot.
>
> If you're running Airflow 2.0+, consider [Smart Sensors](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.0.1/smart-sensor.html?highlight=smart%20sensors).

## 5. Tasks are executing, but they're getting bottlenecked.

> If everything looks like it's running as expected but you're finding that your tasks are getting bottlenecked, we'd recommend taking a closer look at:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your tasks are stuck in a bottleneck, we'd recommend taking a closer look at:
```

- Environment Variables and concurrency configurations
- Worker and Scheduler resources

### Environment Variables and concurrency configurations.

> The potential root cause for a bottleneck and what exactlhy these values should be set at is specific to your setup. For example, are you running many DAGs at once, or one DAG with hundreds of concurrent tasks?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The potential root cause for a bottleneck is specific to your setup. For example, are you running many DAGs at once, or one DAG with hundreds of concurrent tasks?
```

> The potential root cause for a bottleneck and what exactlhy these values should be set at is specific to your setup. For example, are you running many DAGs at once, or one DAG with hundreds of concurrent tasks?

Author: Yikes, thanks @sunkickr ! Fixed.

> Regardless of your use case, however, fine-tuning some configurations can help improve performance. Here's a breakdown of what you can look for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regardless of your use case, however, setting a few [environment variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/variable.html) can help improve performance. Here's a breakdown of what you can look for:
```

> **a. Parallelism** ([parallelism](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/v1-10-stable/airflow/config_templates/default_airflow.cfg#L113))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Parallelism ([parallelism](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/v1-10-stable/airflow/config_templates/default_airflow.cfg#L113))
```
Not sure if you want to address it in this PR, but this whole section is confusing to me. Are we recommending these specific values for all users, or is that just an example of how you could set it? I think it would be better to frame these as "Increasing this value will do X, while decreasing it will do Y" if it should be different for everyone. 

Also, I'm more keen on using H4's vs bold formatting. Might render more in line with the other headers we use. (This suggestion applies to all other headers as well).

>    *  This determines how many task instances can be actively running in parallel _across_ DAGs given the resources available at any given time at the Deployment level. Think of this as "maximum active tasks anywhere."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The `AIRFLOW__CORE__PARALLELISM` environment variable determines how many task instances can be actively running in parallel across DAGs given the resources available at any given time at the Deployment level. Think of this as "maximum active tasks anywhere." To increase performance, set this value higher than its default value of 32.
```
This is an example of what I'd like this section to look like. Feel free to implement something similar across the other variables, or save it for later.

   *   It's important to note that this number will naturally be limited by dag_concurrency. If you have 1 worker and want it to match your Deployment's capacity, worker_concurrency = parallelism.
   *  `ENV AIRFLOW__CELERY__WORKER_CONCURRENCY=9`

**f. Concurrency** ([concurrency](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/v1-9-stable/airflow/models.py#L2848))
   * Not to be confused with the above. "Concurrency" here is set on the individual DAG level, and determines the number of tasks allowed to run concurrently _within_ a single DAG. This may also need to be tuned, but it will not work if defined as part of an `airflow.cfg` file.

> **Pro-tip:** If you consider setting DAG or Deployment level concurrency configs to a low number to protect against API rate limits, we'd recommend instead using ["pools"](https://airflow.apache.org/concepts.html?highlight=pool) - they'll allow you to limit parallelism at the task level and won't limit scheduling or execution outside of the tasks that need it.

### Try Scaling up your Scheduler or adding a Worker.

> If tasks are getting bottlenecked and your concurrency configurations look alright, it might just be that your Scheduler is underpowered or that your Deployment could use another Celery Worker, assuming you're using the [Celery Executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.0.1/executor/celery.html). If you're running on Astronomer, we generally recommend 5 AU as the default minimum for the Scheduler and 10 AU for Celery Workers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If tasks are getting bottlenecked and your concurrency configurations are already optimized, the issue might be that your Scheduler is underpowered or that your Deployment could use another Celery Worker, assuming you're using the [Celery Executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.0.1/executor/celery.html). If you're running on Astronomer, we generally recommend 5 AU as the default minimum for the Scheduler and 10 AU for Celery Workers.
```

Whether or not you scale your current resources or add an extra Celery Worker depends on your use case, but we generally recommend the following:

   * If you're running a relatively high number of light tasks across DAGs and at a relatively high frequency, you're likely better off having 2 or 3 "light" workers to spread out the work.
   * If you're running fewer but heavier tasks at a lower frequency, you're likely better off with a single but "heavier" worker that can more efficiently execute those tasks.

For more information on the differences between Executors, we recommend reading [Airflow Executors: Explained](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/airflow-executors-explained/).

## 6. You're Missing Logs.

Generally speaking, logs fail to show up because of a process that died on your Scheduler or one or more of your Celery Workers.

> If you're missing logs, you might see something like the following:

Reviewer 2: Where would you see this?

Reviewer 2: RT ^ Would you see this in place of the logs?

Author: Good callout! Added:

> If you're missing logs, you might see something like this under "Log by attempts" in the Airflow UI:

## 7. Tasks are slow to schedule and/or have stopped being scheduled altogether

If your tasks are slower than usual to get scheduled, you'll want to check how often you've set your scheduler to restart. Airflow has an unfortunately well-known problem by which the scheduler's performance degrades over time and requires a quick restart to ensure optimal performance.

The frequency of restarts is defined in your airflow.cfg as `"run_duration"`. A `run_duration` of -1 indicates that you never want your Scheduler to restart, whereas a `run_duration` of 3600 will restart your scheduler every hour. Check out [this forum post](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/how-can-i-schedule-automatic-scheduler-restarts/61) for more info. We generally restart our own schedulers about once a day, but the frequency at which you might is very much dependent on your particular use case. 

If you're using Astronomer, you can restart your scheduler by either:

> 1. Inserting `AIRFLOW__SCHEDULER__RUN_DURATION={num_seconds_between_restarts} `as an Environment Variable in the Configure page of the Astronomer UI to set a recurring restart OR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Inserting `AIRFLOW__SCHEDULER__RUN_DURATION={num_seconds_between_restarts} `as an Environment Variable in the Configure page of the Astronomer UI to set a recurring restart.
```

> 2. Running `astro airflow deploy` via your CLI to immediately restart everything (if you're running Celery, there is a [Worker Termination Grace Period](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/what-is-the-worker-termination-grace-period-on-astronomers-ui/141) you can leverage here to minimize existing immediate task disruption)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Running `astro airflow deploy` via your CLI to immediately restart everything (if you're running Celery, there is a [Worker Termination Grace Period](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/what-is-the-worker-termination-grace-period-on-astronomers-ui/141) you can leverage here to minimize existing immediate task disruption.
```

Since it's not ordered steps, we should use bullet points.

> **Note:** Scheduler performance was a critical part of the [Airflow 2.0 release](https://www.astronomer.io/blog/introducing-airflow-2-0) and has seen significant improvements since December of 2020. For more information, read [The Airflow 2.0 Scheduler](https://www.astronomer.io/blog/airflow-2-scheduler). 

## Was this helpful?

This list is based on our experience helping Astronomer customers with core Airflow issues, but we want to hear from you. Don't hesitate to reach out to us at humans@astronomer.io if we missed something that you think would be valuable to include.

If you have follow up questions or are looking for Airflow support from our team, [reach out to us](https://www.astronomer.io/contact/?from=/).

> <!-- markdownlint-disable-file -->

Reviewer: Add new line at the end

Author: @sunkickr Is this just add another line between 202 and `<!-- markdownlint-disable-file -->`? Just did that - let me know if that works.

Reviewer: I think its anew line after <!-- markdownlint-disable-file -->

Author: Ah ok... I think I got it?
